welcome hello everybody I'm Jessica
dorita from trust psyche and it is such
a
be able to spend the Sunday together
this is our free monthly try psyche
livestream that we host right here every
first Sunday of the month
all are welcome so please invite your
friends we host a variety of speakers on
a myriad of topics and you can find out
more about us at recipe.com and you can
sign up for these live streams at truss
psyche comm backslash live stream to
participate live and to ask your
questions if you value what we do here
today the best way you can support us is
by subscribing to our youtube channel
liking this video and sharing it with
all of your friends i'm very honored and
excited to present our guest speaker for
today chris beige who's going to be
presenting on his forthcoming book LSD
and the mind of the universe diamonds
from heaven released this november 26
you can pre-order your copy today
through Amazon up until the 1700s humans
believed that the edge of our universe
ended at the planet Saturn the last
visible planet that we can see with the
unaided eye with the invention of the
telescope we turned it to the heavens
and to our great surprise we discovered
the planet Uranus twice as far out as
the planet Saturn our universe doubled
in size then in the 1800s with the
discovery of Neptune our universe once
again doubled in size then in 1931 with
the discovery of Pluto our universe then
again doubled in size and now less than
400 years later from the discovery of
Uranus we have the deep space Hubble
telescope which shows us that there are
trillions upon trillions of galaxies in
our universe for me this is analogous to
the work that Chris has done and his
deep exploration of consciousness
radically breaking open and through our
cosmology and our philosophy and our
metaphysics through the 73 high dose
LSD sessions that he did it over 20
years and began to share with us in his
work dark night early dawn steps to a
deep ecology of mind
now with LSD and the mind of the
universe Chris takes us further into
Diamond luminosity and brings back the
diamonds from heaven that he so
graciously shares with all of us here
today there couldn't be a more important
time for Chris to share his work with
all of us both in the greater
understanding and acceptance of
psychedelics today but also because of
the psycho spiritual death and rebirth
that our collective human species seems
to be going through right now so please
help me give a very warm and loving
welcome to our beloved friend Chris Bosh
and when Chris is done speaking you each
have an opportunity to ask your
questions so please have those ready as
that is our favorite and those special
part of these live streams thank you so
much for being with us here today
hi everyone Thank You Jessica and Travis
thank you for this opportunity to share
my work with participants intrapsychic
aam it is truly an honor to do so it's
also an overwhelming task because this
book covers so many dimensions of
consciousness it covers so many years of
work and when I talk about it I have a
tendency to get absorbed naturally into
the experience as I'm describing
and that makes compressing 20 years of
work and 20 years of thinking and
writing into a very short presentation
really challenging so to me a talk is
the most effective way to get to
question and answers so I'll try to keep
this contained and as brief as I can and
then save a good half hour at the end
for Q&A and we'll see where that goes
maybe even more than a half an hour so
I'm going to start with a little bit of
background first of all those are you
who know me and some of you don't know
me
the last person you would expect to have
written a book on psychedelics I was
raised in the deep south in Mississippi
I was raised in a middle-class Catholic
background I wanted to be a salmon
priest early in my life was in the
seminary for three years in high school
I studied theology at Notre Dame New
Testament criticism at Cambridge and
then philosophy of religion at Brown by
the time I had finished graduate school
I was a atheistic Lee inclined agnostic
and the 60s had completely passed me by
I was not psychedelically involved in in
my college or graduate school at all so
I was naive psychedelically and I was an
atheistic Lee inclined agnostic
philosophically and then came Ellis team
shortly after beginning my career I met
the work of Stan Grof and that set my
life on the course that I'm still
harvesting today so first let me start a
PowerPoint that I'll be using and then
I'm gonna keep this on only for about 10
minutes and then I'll shift in and out
of it
again later let me see if I can get this
started here this is what the book will
look like and I'll tell you a secret
about this book this is the publishers
title LSD in the mind of the universe my
title is diamonds from heaven because
diamonds from heaven is a story of a
journey what they wanted a more
marketable title and that's LSD in the
mind of the universe the beginning of
this book goes back 40 years over 40
years when I had begun graduate school
in 78 right then I met the work of
stanislav grof his book realms of the
human unconscious turned my life around
followed quickly by LSD psychotherapy he
gave me the method and the confidence to
pursue the method of exploring my
consciousness and through that
exploration to come to know the deep
psyche the deep universe better I want
to emphasize that I did this work as a
philosopher I was not a therapist I was
not primarily seeking healing though
healing did come but I was seeking to
understand our universe as deeply as I
could by exploring my consciousness as
deeply as I could so a few observations
on method and then we'll kind of go
right into the content everyone is aware
I think of the distinction between
low-dose psycholytic therapy that stand
develops and high-dose psychedelic
therapy low dose psychedelic therapy
peels the mind gradually layer by layer
in very intense therapeutic encounters
psychedelic therapy is a very different
protocol it's a protocol trying to trick
her in the early days who are trying to
trigger a near-death experience for
people who had terminal cancer they were
trying to heal them but to trigger an
encounter with the universe that would
open them to the world that they were
about to enter when I began my own work
I chose to work with high doses of LSD
primarily because it was simply
difficult to get time to arrange a day
of inter journeying with the dual-career
marriage and I wanted to make the most
out of every day that I could put into
this I thought of myself as basically
doing an extended regimen of psychedelic
therapy doing just psychedelic therapy
but for a longer period of time
originally psychedelic therapy was
limited to a maximum of three sessions
and I thought well you could do three
sessions with this work safely you could
do it more sessions and do it safely
when I got to the end of this journey
and was looking back over slinte
I began to appreciate that what happened
in my work was different than what I saw
being recorded reported in psychedelic
therapy so different that I thought it
needed a new kind of language to
describe it so I've chosen the term
psychedelic exploration psychedelic
exploration is the method of psychedelic
therapy isolation earphones had
headphones music total protection with
the sitter the difference is the number
of sessions involved in my case 73
high-dose sessions
between 1979 and 1999 I worked for four
years I stopped for six years for
reasons that I described in the book and
then I resumed for a very intense
10-year process I did this work between
when I was thirty and fifty years old
I'm now 70 years old so I've taken a
long time to present this work
completely candidly to the world partly
for legal reasons and partly because it
simply takes a long time it took me a
long time to map and understand all the
dynamics of the sessions that unfolded
during these years I want to say at the
outset that this is not a methodology
that I would recommend today if I were
doing it over again I would be gentler
on myself I would take a slower process
of engaging the great expanse of the
mind of the universe
I would balance high-dose work with low
dose sessions I would also balance
working with LSD with working with
psilocybin and ayahuasca more body
grounded psychedelics for a variety of
reasons all of which I discuss in the
book don't have time to go into here I
tried to do this work as systematically
and rigorously as I can working as a
philosopher I made it a high priority to
make a complete and phenomenologically
accurate record of my sessions within 24
hours and then studied the sessions and
the dynamics arcing across sessions and
comparing my experiences to those who
were that had been had by other
psychedelic journey errs this is a
snapshot of my journal about 400 pages
my psychedelic notes that for me are my
personal Bible they are the record of my
deepest experiences of the universe and
therefore in my life they come before
all other discursive thinking and
analytic analysis kept detailed records
of my sessions all the way through I
looked at and studied the
astrological transits of my sessions
trying I was aware of Rick and Stan's
thinking about the relationship between
the outer transits the outer planets and
the global transits and how they affect
one's work in deep non-ordinary states
so I wanted to study this hypothesis
myself and look at how my sessions
projected against the rhythms of the
solar system during the years I was
doing this work I want to emphasize that
the story I'm telling in LSD in the mind
of the universe is not primarily a
personal story I mean it is a personal
story at one level but in another sense
it's not primarily a personal story this
series of curves represents a series of
LSD sessions and I found that after the
first 15 sessions or so when I was
working insights and help in my personal
life tended to come at the beginning and
end of my sessions as I was leaving and
returning to time-space reality that's
reflected in these small circles when
the session was in its peak hours
represented by the large circles I was
usually operating beyond curse my
personal reality beyond Chris Bhatia's
reality not entirely but largely and so
the story I'm telling in LSD in the mind
of the universe is the story of what
unfolded in those large circles at the
peak hours of my psychedelic sessions
this is primarily a cosmological
narrative it's not primarily a
therapeutic narrative the details the
personal details are important in a
therapeutic not work narrative it's not
so much in a cosmological narrative I
found when I did this work that what
unfolded in my work was a series a
multiple series of experiences of death
and rebirth that eventually kind of
concretize dinh to this picture the drop
below the line that line is kind of
represents the border of time-space the
drop below the line is egoic reality our
individual space time consciousness and
the first death and rebirth which is the
one most frequently talked about in the
literature is ego death which takes
place in that first level when we make
the transition from ordinary
consciousness into early trance personal
consciousness but if you continue to
work and press the limits of your
experience I found that there are other
deaths which take place at other levels
of consciousness and wife I look Stan
Grof in using the vocabulary of psychic
subtle and causal reality to describe
some of these deeper levels of
consciousness I don't have a vested
interest in how many levels of reality
there might be or how many times the
circle of death and rebirth may turn
what's important is the principle that
if s one pushes deeper and deeper and
deeper if you do this work
systematically there are a series of
deaths and rebirths that open in the
process as I have looked back and mapped
these circles oversimplify of course
these are a number of sessions and what
is shown here is the sort of circles
within circles the deaths within deaths
that mark a deepening of progressive
deepening into causal level reality so
yeah circles within circles when I
looked over the entirety of all of my
psychedelic work identified five
fundamental death rebirth processes or
levels of consciousness where death and
rebirth were operating these are the
five levels first the death of self by
which I mean the death of our time-space
identity as our individual identity as
our sense of who and what we are moving
into collective mind there are three
chapters in the book dealing with the
dynamics of collective mind the ocean of
suffering
deep time then archetype Lamine
experiences that the high archetypal
level experienced it the Lord archetypal
level followed by immersion in causal
oneness oneness services of course much
earlier in the sequence but there is
something quite distinctive about causal
level oneness and finally the diamond
luminosity work after everything that
had taken place before emerging into the
diamond light that Buddhism calls
dharmakaya I call the diamond luminosity
so let me before turning off the power
point let me simply take you through a
list of the chapters of LSD in the mind
of the universe there is a methodology
chapter chapter one but then in terms of
the content of the experiences crossing
the boundary of birth and death the
ocean of suffering deep time in the soul
initiation into the universe the greater
real of archetypal reality a benediction
of blessings the birth of the future
human diamond and Manasa tea and final
vision and then there is the last
chapter coming off the mountain
it took me actually a year just to write
that last chapter that is a chapter in
which I reflect on what has been
happening in my life in the 20 years
after I stopped my psychedelic work what
I'll do is go through each of these
chapters and simply mention a few points
on each of the chapters work through the
list as quickly as I can and then we'll
open it up for questions and answers let
me keep track of my time
okay first crossing the boundary of life
and death is the one that's easiest
because it's most familiar it's so
thoroughly described in stan grof
literature when I entered this domain
which took about two and a half years to
navigate and ten sessions my work began
Sacher became saturated with
confrontations with death
fetal sensations all sorts of severe
perinatal seizures a purging of the body
eventually culminating in ego death my
ego death basically involved a complete
reversal of everything that I knew
myself to be at the time I was an
academic a white male academic
philosopher passionately concerned with
the meaning of life I became the
complete opposite of that I became women
women of color women who were not
interested in philosophical reflection
at all I became it was a frightening
experience a terrifying experience but
when I let go when I let go and allowed
myself to become all these women who
were so different from me I entered the
world of women and was given the
experience of hundreds and hundreds of
women under the arm with a great mother
it was a truly life-changing experience
for me and I wish every man could have
that experience when I went into when I
went through that death and rebirth
process and went into continued to work
I entered into a domain of suffering and
pain and agony collective pain and
suffering that was so severe I came to
call it the ocean of suffering so let me
back up just for a second working at
these levels as I did it every session
basically had two phases a first phase
which was a purification phase and a
second phase which was the ecstatic
phase the purification phase would be
some type of very profound cathartic
purification engagement and if that was
allowed to continue to its culmination
there was some type of
a breakthrough and then the recession's
pivoted to an ecstatic portion for the
remainder of the session when I'm
describing the ocean of suffering I'm
describing the purification phase of the
next two years of work tremendous
suffering at first I thought this was a
deepening of ego death I thought somehow
that pieces of my ego were still in play
and that this collective suffering
represented a deepening of ego death but
eventually this continued for so long
and it was so severe that I came to a
different conclusion
the conclusion I came to is that
somewhere along the line something had
happened in my sessions that these
ordeals were not really aimed at my
personal transformation at all that
somewhere along the line the focus of my
work at this point became actually the
purification and healing of some aspect
of the collective psyche some aspect of
the collective unconscious but somehow I
was tapping into pain and suffering
which was lodged in the collective
psyche and by engaging this pain and
suffering consciously it was in some way
being lifted out of the collective
psyche and therefore lightening the kind
of karmic burden that our species was
holding well I wrote dark night early
dawn primarily to understand this whole
dynamic primarily to understand how my
sessions how death could become as large
as it became in my sessions and by
integrating Rupert Sheldrake's concept
of morphic fields into Stan Grof
paradigm the way open to viewing these
experiences as part of a larger
transformational practice aimed at the
collective psyche in the ecstatic
portion of these next these two years of
sessions in the ecstatic portion I
entered into what I call deep time in
the soul
I and I began to have experiences of my
life as a completed whole from start to
finish with all the time moments of my
life with all the themes and all the
people in circumstances of my life
simultaneously present and I was
basically taken into this territory
consistently for one year over and over
again seven sessions went deeper deeper
and was basically given a profound crash
course and Chris beiges life what it was
about who the people were that I was
involved in my life was taken into a
kind of a spiritual distillation of what
my life was about and what it was going
to be about when I first entered this
reality and came out of it after the
session it had been the most powerful
and transformative experience of my life
and yet I couldn't remember it after the
session was over I could not hold on to
trance terrible experiences of this
magnitude because there simply was no
reference point in my ordinary
consciousness to anchor them but when I
went back again and again and again I
found that I was able to hold on to
these experiences more effectively I was
able to remember them I was able to
bring more and more of them back and
this is an important point if you want
to enter into these states and you
cultivate systemic recall of the
experiences in these states you have to
really work with a lot of discipline you
have to engage them very conscientiously
record them conscientiously
and if you hold this position well you
literally learn how to become how to be
stay conscious in states of
consciousness that previously you were
not able to hold the conscious awareness
in and this pattern repeated every time
I would break through to a new level
there was always a period of
disorientation a period of loss of
memory but then when I would keep going
back over and over and over again to
that new level my cognition improved my
perception improved my ability to
understand
and record all the experiences improved
now the ocean of suffering work I said
lasted two years and 14 sessions but
this was actually divided into one year
of work and then I took my six year
break and then I started my second Delic
work again when I started after my six
year break the ocean of suffering began
exactly where it had been in the first
year of work so six years later
completely different circumstances in my
life completely different expectations
and different astrological conditions
nevertheless my sessions began exactly
where they had stopped which is an
indication of the the intentionality of
the intelligence that's guiding our work
when I started this after the break the
ecstatic portion of the sessions began
at a completely different place the
in what I came to call initiation into
the universe I was taken systematically
by some intelligence that never adopted
any form but I always felt an
intelligence that seemed to be intent on
teaching me how the universe functions
how it operates I was given a crash
course in cosmology 101 in this material
the initiation of the universe I should
mention I give names to my sessions I
give every session a name the name
reflects the pith content of the session
and I break the session down in bullet
points the names of the sessions that I
gave this chapter on initiation the
universe these are the sessions that are
discussed in that chapter you and I
creating was really a crash course in
cosmology the cosmic tour was an
extraordinary tour of the universe then
there was a training session and I
called the Council of Elders a session
which was training me and how to
maintain coherent consciousness as these
deeper levels of awareness were opening
dying into one
was an extraordinary immersion into
oneness the master plan was the
beginning of a series of visions that
I'm going to come back to later it was a
series of initiations into what appeared
to be the plan that the creative
intelligence had for the evolution of
the human species at this point in its
history I know it sounds monstrously
arrogant to talk like that but this is
simply what happened in the sessions and
then healing the collective wound
healing the collective wound was the
ocean of suffering came into a
culmination it came into an
extraordinary hard to describe I lay it
out of the book as best as I can hard to
describe the magnitudes of suffering
that one can enter into in this work and
when that work came to its crescendo I
was spun from there into archetypal
reality and the ocean of suffering never
returned in future sessions there was a
lot of work there was suffering but it
was never this collective suffering that
seemed to reflect the history of the
human species after the initiation of
the universe I entered archetypal
reality this lasted about one and a half
years and eleven sessions when I entered
archetypal reality I entered a reality
that immediately was recognized as more
real than physical reality every time I
entered this level of work I I had the
sensation that I was entering a reality
that was more real more existentially
real than time and space in fact it
became very disorienting to realize how
deluded and watered-down reality is
inside time and space reality when I
entered this work my human identity
began to fall away from me I found that
we have a sense of being human that is
deeper than our sense of being any
individual human an ego
is a death of our individual experience
of being human but entering archetypal
reality required that I somehow let go
of human experience at a deeper level
and eventually I could no longer fit
myself back into any cognitive frame of
reference related to Homo sapiens I
entered a level of consciousness that I
experiences being above and beyond human
consciousness and there I was
systematically worked with and given
lessons on how reality operated there
these experiences kind of broke down and
at two different levels at the high
platonic level at the highest level
level I encountered beings that were
completely beyond my ability to
conceptualize and understand my mind
imaged them like galaxies there were
just vast beings that were the creators
of time and space they were the creators
of life on this planet
they were the guardians of existence
they were the massive constitutional
forces that actually create everything
that we know as times space in this
magnificent universe at a lower
archetypal level at more of a Jungian
level I was taken and given many
experiences of the collective
consciousness our collective psyche our
collective unconscious and even kind of
a collective body that all of our bodies
are cells in I was given many
experiences on how the collective psyche
works on how reality functions at this
level these all took place primarily at
subtle level reality so I was given
exercises and the nuts and bolts of how
reality works how our individual Minds
ourselves within a larger mind and even
how our individual bodies our cells
within some kind of fundamental core
archetype of the human body and that
when we engage and heal diseases in our
individual body we simultaneously are
impacting the health of the human
families
larger body the list of the sessions
that I address in this chapter xxviii
session was an extraordinarily positive
session ecstatic session in which I
broke through and touched calls a level
reality for the first time and extremely
clear lucid hard to describe state of
hyper clarity and then I was quite
surprised to go through three sessions
of just gut-wrenching cleansing just on
our deal of physical psychological
cleansing that had absolutely no
cognitive content associated with it at
all it's just a just a gut-wrenching
cleansing in time to make a very long
story short I began to realize that what
there is a cycle that I came to call the
cycle of purification the cycle of
purification is that every step into a
deeper level of consciousness is a step
into a higher level of energy so that
when we when I first broke into causal
level reality in the 28th session I
touched a reality that was so pure that
it triggered a purification process in
my being that lasted three sessions
extending over six months and I found
that this pattern repeated itself over
and over again as I continued to go
deeper every time I broke into a new
level of conscious and had that ecstatic
experience of waking up in a deeper
level of reality the following sessions
were very very difficult very much
involved in cleansing carrying out the
garbage so much so that I began to dread
the sessions that immediately followed
the major breakthrough sessions I should
mention here that one of the things that
opened up this level is I began to
experience reincarnation as a collective
previously and those of you who know my
book on reincarnation life cycles know
that the story of the soul of the story
I'm telling of reincarnation there is
the story of our individual evolution
directing our individual evolution over
many lifetimes reflecting our individual
choices and our individual learning but
now I began to have experiences of the
entire planet entering into a
reincarnation process and I experienced
millions of people over time century
after century millions of people
incarnated in a way that was integrated
that was you not uniform but that was
integrated so that all of our individual
karma our individual soul aspirations
our individual challenges were all part
of the collective karma collective
challenges and our collective
development as a species
it was magnificently beautiful to
witness this interplay between
individual and collective reincarnation
again all of these taking place at the
subtle level of reality when one was
gauging the deeper architecture of the
universe after spending about 11 months
exploring archetypal reality and at
going through this 11 sessions going
through this very quickly
I entered what I came to call the
benediction of blessings it was a period
of extraordinary blessings just given
one massive blessing after another these
are the names of the four sessions that
I address in this chapter the forest was
an experience of Shunyata emptiness of
self no self in me no self anywhere
around me an experience of radical and
profound transparency the birth of the
diamond soul I mentioned in a second
singing the universal way was an
experience of primal void
experience had culminated in the
experience of such at ananda
consciousness being in bliss eventually
moving into a complete void the fertile
void that subsumes and is the origin out
of which the physical university merged
Jesus blood was an experience of
extraordinary cosmic love love like I
have never known it before just super
saturated soul saturated engaging of
love the birth of diamond soul I want to
mention because it'll come up later in
the work in that experience in the birth
of the diamond soul session which was
really a deeply moving long-lasting
session for me I began to experience all
of my former lives coming into me very
fast very quickly eleven years before I
had experienced my entire life from
beginning to end now I began to
experience all my lives coming in and it
was like the we're wrapping kite string
around a spool and at some point this
spool ignited It was as if we hit
critical mass and all of these lives
fused into a singularity and when they
fuse an extraordinary light broke out of
my chest it was my first contact with
what I later called Diamond light and I
think what I was being given in this
session was an experience of how
reincarnation works and where
reincarnation is taking humanity this
process of accumulating more and more
experience more and more lives is not
simply improving us and making us better
beings one life at a time adding a
little bit here a little bit there but
eventually we're collecting experience
and I think eventually in the entire
human saga all of us are coming into a
stage where eventually all of our
knowledge all of our experience
everything we've ever done everyone
we've ever
known through these lives there is a
fusion of that knowledge and when that
knowledge fuses we are catapulted into a
higher operational status with a
different relationship to the universe a
greater transparency to the universe and
also a different relationship with
everyone around us because we have been
connected to each other for so many
lifetimes we have been fathers mothers
enemies friends partners in so many
lifetimes when we become whole within
ourselves it opens up a depth of
compassion to all beings we experience
around us and not just human beings all
beings on our planet after the
benediction of blessings where the work
went next was into the diamond
luminosity work
I was completely existentially satisfied
after the the benediction of blessings
work I had given something that I had
been asked to give in the ocean of
suffering and I had been repaid and
given more in return that I could
possibly have imagined but then we went
into the diamond luminosity work but
before I begin to tell you about that I
want to back step a little bit and talk
about the birth of the future human
because it's been a reoccurring theme in
my session starting all the way back to
the 22nd session all the way through to
the end of the sessions a reoccurring
theme is what is happening to the human
race where are we in our evolutionary
journey now I tell this story in the
book
I've brought together in one place all
of the session material related to the
birth of the future human in this one
chapter so in the starting with
experiences that first appeared in
chapter 6 the initiation of the universe
running all the way through I gathered
them all together and collected them
into two segments first is a segment
that I call the visions of awakening
which are visions that I have been given
in different piecemeal fashion about
where we are and where we are going I
break this down into six visions these
are the six themes of our wakening what
was most striking to me about this was
first how dramatic this process was and
how the experience was that we were
poised to move into an evolutionary to
make an evolutionary jump that would
completely propel us into a higher order
of functioning not only as individuals
but as a species we are poised on the
edge of a profound Great Awakening but
in all of these visions and I'm going so
fast I hate to go so fast through them
but in all of these visions I and which
kept pointing to an awakening taking
place on the planet of the human species
of the entire species the consciousness
of our universe was actually trying to
awaken the entire human species
I was not shown how this was going to
take place I was not shown how this was
even possible and then about a year and
a half after the last of the visions of
awakening I was given a session right in
the middle of the diamond luminosity
work I had entered the diamond
luminosity in sessions 45 and 50 I would
enter it again later in sessions 60 and
66 right in the middle
I was taken into the deep time of our
species I was given an experience of
tape being taken right into the center
of the Great Awakening that we are
coming into and there I experienced this
transformation not as an individual
human being my boundaries had been
opened so many times in the years
preceding that I experienced the Great
Awakening as our species
I was taken inside the collective psyche
and was given an experience of what will
be happening
from the perspective of the collective
unconscious my experience there was that
for there to be a Great Awakening of
this magnitude there must first take
place a great death a great surrender we
must be purged and emptied of all our
old ways of thinking and feeling before
the space is created to allow awakening
of a higher order of knowing so that the
time of great awakening was preceded by
a time of great breakdown loss of
control literally an unraveling of life
as we know it just as in a psychedelic
session one must let go of everything
and experience a profound death before
great visions open
likewise for our species we must let go
of everything that has dominated our
past all the constrictions of our
thinking the constrictions of our mind
and the constrictions of our heart in
order to open to this new future which
is coming there is a third segment on
the birth of the future human and that
came later in the chapter on the final
vision I want to say that my visions
didn't tell me how this was going to
take place they didn't tell me when it
was going to take place and didn't give
me any information about the details
it took me inside the collective psyche
and gave me an experience of the
collective psyches experience of this
and it also gave me an understanding and
experience of some of the mechanisms
that are involved at the collective
level that will help us move make this
huge transition we are trying to make in
the little time that we have to make it
I discussed this I present this I
discussed it in darknet early dawn and I
lay it out again in LSD in the mind of
the universe the diamond luminosity
material
as I said before after the benediction
of blessings I had no idea where the
work was going to go I was completely
existentially satisfied I had thought I
had been drawn deep into the cosmic
process I had been overwhelmed with
cosmic love I had been taken into the
fertile void underneath all physical
existence I had no idea where things
would go but there were still five years
ahead on the journey and the diamond
luminosity kevlars four years of the
work and 26 sessions it's by far covers
more sessions than any other chapter in
the book and a longer period of time
what happened was after going through
yet one more very intense death and
rebirth process I was taken into a
reality a level of consciousness that
was well Buddhism calls it dharmakaya
the clear light of absolute love
absolute reality I was taken in a domain
of consciousness that was absolute pure
light the most striking thing about the
experience was how clear clear clear
beyond imagination this domain was just
to touch this for a few minutes was life
transforming in and of itself absolutely
clear clear beyond the species mind
beyond archetypal reality beyond
physical any derivative of physical
consciousness into this hyper clear
celestial state over the next four years
I entered this reality four times and
only four times out of 26 sessions only
four of them took me deep into this
reality here are the names of the
sessions death state diamond luminosity
the universal field of light in the
nature of mind in between these sessions
as you might imagine there were many
sessions of continuing intense
purification
because this was a deeper level of
reality of much more pure level of
reality and that required the
purification of my physical and
psychological system in order to
stabilize consciousness at this reality
they also scattered in these sessions it
was a great deal of personal healing
that took place which is kind of curious
to me because I would have thought that
personal healing would have taken place
much earlier in the journey but it took
place here and I discussed I came to
understand why things were unfolding in
that order the first two of these
sessions were taking me deeper and
deeper into Diamond luminosity which
really piqued them in the 50th session
the second two session 60 and 66 the
diamond luminosity was crunching itself
deeper and deeper into my physical
system into my psychological system into
my physical body as I said talking about
these sessions they're very powerful
they draw me into them just to try to
describe that the time is short so I
want to move through and we'll keep
going and we can come back to mend the
question-and-answers let me mention one
thing midway through this process and
the 50th session when I went into the
deepest transcendent experience I ever
had in any of the sessions into the
deepest level of diamond luminosity I
was as far into the crystalline body of
God as I had ever been and would ever be
and right in the middle of this session
I had an experience that completely
changed my understanding of existence in
the middle of this session my visual
field pivoted 90 degrees and I saw
reality that was far beyond the reality
that I was in inside diamond luminosity
and a ray of light came out of that
distant reality and hit me and it
completely shattered
it just I just absolutely shattered me
and in that experience I realized that
there is no end to this journey there is
no destiny point at end point that one
eventually reaches that the divine is
infinite and will never ever I will
never ever be able to reach even using
this powerful method to the absolute
ends of that reality now this is
important because I had absorbed and
many of us have absorbed the idea that
there is an end point to this journey
you become one with God where you enter
into the meta cosmic void that there's
an end point and you keep pushing until
you reach that end point and I had
experienced oneness with God but I
discovered that there are many
permutations of oneness there are levels
and levels of oneness and I had
experienced the the formless void but I
had learned that there are actually
dimensions of formlessness there are
depths of born lessness when I when the
diamond luminosity were opened I thought
it came with such a profound sense of
homecoming it was so deeply satisfying I
thought I had finally found my
destination I finally found my stopping
point I had found the end of the journey
in this session session fifty showed me
that there are dimensions beyond even
that and I would never ever reach some
final standpoint the reason the death
kept returning over and over again in
this work is if you keep driving
yourself and you have a method that
submission would powerful to keep taking
you Pastor then limits the universe will
keep taking you deeper and deeper and
deeper into yourself into itself and
will never be able to reach the very end
of it and that's why I would be gentler
with myself if I were doing this work
over again because now I understand that
the goal was not to get to some end
state or some ultimate dimension the
goal is to open ourselves to the trends
ascendant realities and let us much of
that spiritual reality into our hearts
and into our minds
to let it change us down to the heart
and soul and incorporate as much of it
as we possibly can and bring as much of
divinity into time and space as we
possibly can and be patient with the
rest I'm a little more patient now than
I was when I was a young man doing this
work
and then this brings me to the final
addition chapter the chapter where yeah
I'm gonna take a shortcut here I'll
simply say that I was put through a
horrendously powerful stripped-down
process and was taken deeper into deep
time than I had ever been taken before
and I was given an extraordinarily
powerful series of visions about human
evolution and was allowed to experience
again the future human that we are in
the process of becoming to experience
the architecture the inner architecture
of the deep psyche of the future human
and this is a magnificent being just to
just to think about this being just to
remember the magnitude of this being
brings tears to my eyes it's so
important for us to hold on to the
vision of what we are where we are going
and what is happening in the deep
structure of history because it's the
shadows of our travail deep and as we
enter the great time of unraveling as we
enter the purification that we are
coming into now it's going to be very
tempting and there'll be all sorts of
voices talking about Armageddon and
apocalypse and the extinction and the
end of times and this is not the end of
anything this is the process of giving
birth to a new and finer version of
humanity
after this the akancha sness guiding my
sessions wrapped it up I didn't know we
were stopping but it wrapped it up
and took me through two experiences
which I called the goodbye shion's it
basically wrapped up all of our work and
at the end of the 73rd session I knew
that it was time for me to stop I want
to talk about very briefly coming off
the mountain overall I think I did a
good job integrating my sessions as I
went I paid a lot of attention to my
body I took good care of my body I did a
lot of spiritual practice
I wrote my sessions down carefully I
tried to internalize them as deeply as I
could
session by session I think I did a good
job of integrating my sessions and
because I had been given so many gifts
and so many blessings in the course of
my 20 years of work I thought that I
could simply stop my sessions and step
back and I would continue to be
nourished by those experiences and I was
and that did happen but that's not all
that's happened in the years following
the ending of my work in 1999 I found
myself gradually entering into a period
of what I call the deep sadness a
profound existential sadness what I was
suffering from was a loss of communion
with the divine I had entered so deeply
into the divine so deeply into the
luminous reality of such supreme super
cosmic reality that I knew I would never
enter that deeply into reality into the
divinity again before I died I knew I
was going away I was setting it aside
and coming back in it for a variety of
reasons to much to go into here I had to
stop my sessions it was important for me
to stop them but I knew I would never
experience the divine this deeply again
until I died and I would experience it
again well when I died but not being
able to return this deeply into divinity
became an open heartache for me once you
have been
have known the joy of dissolving into
the divine light
once you have dissolved completely into
the boundary list condition transcending
time and space life on earth can tend to
feel kind of dried up and basically I
was losing interest in continuing to
live inside time and space
eventually I realized I was just waiting
to die I was taking care of my children
I was taking care of my students and
teaching writing but in my heart of
hearts I was waiting to die so that I
could return to my beloved to the divine
and then years passed and I realized
this is not right this is not the way
it's supposed to be everything about my
life was screaming failure to integrate
but because I had tried to integrate
each of my sessions so carefully and so
conscientiously I did not understand
work the failure could lie but I had no
choice but to recognize that somewhere
along the line something had gone wrong
that it would leave me feeling so
existentially adrift in its wake so I
turned and studied my work further to
try to figure out what had gone wrong
and what I learned was integrating an
entire journey is different than
integrating individual sessions then
basically
hard to talk about in a matter of
seconds and a half a minute
it's hard to describe the process of in
a sense having too much god it almost
sounds like a contradiction in terms
early more of God is always better now
this entire physical universe is the
body of God I knew that I know that I'm
standing here and surrounded and part of
the body of the divinity but even that
knowledge which had been given me in my
sessions did not save me from the
consequences but having entered into
full divine presence so many times in
time I began to realize that I had lost
a balance in my sessions and the balance
was between transcendence and imminence
I had entered so deeply into
transcendent reality that I had lost my
foothold in space-time reality
transcendence is a magnificent thing
it's very healing to experience
transcendence it's very it's very sane
making it's very teaches us what and why
we're here but too much transcendence
can be disorienting too much
transcendence can actually make you lose
contact with another great truth and
that is the truth of our embodied
existence
I made a completely strong commitment to
reestablishing my presence inside time
and space it took me about 10 years I
did it through conscious exercises and I
did it through a sheer commitment to
live as I was where I was for the my
remaining years in this earth and it
took me about about 10 years to really
get solidly grounded and operational on
the earth I will say at the same time
that I've learned to manage
my memories of transcendence my memories
of communion but they're always there in
the back of my mind
they always guide me in the in the
larger trajectory of my life
yes hello thank you very much for
sharing this amazing appearance today
you have a I made from Israel I wanted
to ask two questions first of all the
about when you say a high dose what is
what is the what are the doses that we
were talking about yeah yeah okay go
ahead and the second question I wanted
to ask about all this all the setting
you know what was the setting cause you
know III consumed I do a lot work with
with with plants and I was very
interesting to know about the setting
how was the setting of the of the of it
of the of the journeys how you did it
how you prepared yourself how you did
what was in the moment
if you were sitting if you're lying you
iced clothes music music nature although
these things and they I would like to
know about this and about also about how
you were in the daily life what kind of
things helped you to to stay here in a
good way like what spiritual practices
or exercise of food or something that
was thank you very much yeah good
questions thank you
I'm worked at 500 to 600 micrograms
which is very high doses of LSD and I
mean low dose psychedelic work maybe one
two hundred micrograms
this was very high levels my setting I
was always working in complete privacy
and inside I was either in my own house
or at my wife's professional office well
I was always lying down I was basically
if you if you look at Stan's book LSD
psychotherapy you'll get the protocol
laid out in great detail music was very
carefully curated to pace the stages of
the opening and closing of the session
always wearing eye shades not really and
the only way of my sitter would be in
communication with me was primarily
through the music she took care of my
body
and took care of the music and so I was
not in nature mm-hmm what was the other
part of your oath the grounding
practices um really important you have
to maintain grounding is a dynamic
balance my life was very kind of
grounded in a schedule in reality first
of all was grounded in relationships was
grounded in a long marriage my first
wife 24-year marriage it was grounded in
my roles and responsibilities as a
father I have three children so wherever
I was on Monday I was on Saturday I was
back in the classroom on Monday and I
was taking care of my children on Sunday
morning in my teaching a head of a
rhythmic a constant set of
responsibilities that kept me always on
track always kind of I always grounded
in my responsibilities of teaching my
students I was always doing spiritual
practice I was always doing a form of
meditation I encorte did different types
of meditation over the years but I was
always meditating took care of my body
doing yoga various physical practices
it's really important to stay in lively
contact with one's physical world while
doing this work so basically we're just
blowing consciousness out to its
farthest limits and then it
spontaneously Rican jails and I found
that myself I had a seemingly a natural
capacity an easy capacity Jessica I can
no doubt explain in my chart the markers
of that yeah a capacity to let loose and
let go of boundaries and then to Rican
Geel back into my time-space reality
yeah does that cover your questions
enough yes yes thank you very much
so I just left question is to consume
this you always made sure let's say
there will be someone like in a distance
on the house or somewhere that it would
need you need assistance or yeah like
you always you make sure that they
nobody would be there yes in my is my
mic on yes okay yes I was never left
alone I was always taking care of my
wife was my sitter she's a clinical
psychologist my first wife Carol she was
my sitter how she never left me alone
and she she had complete responsibility
for taking care of our world
we were always isolated we were in
private there were no interruptions to
my work when I basically closed the door
and we entered this world there was
absolutely nothing that was going to
intrude from the outside world I think
that's really important it's important
to have an absolute clear container
I call it entering the Kiva just as in
in the southwestern United States when
they would do spiritual practice they
crawl into the Kiva a hole in the ground
they pull up the ladder and you're
isolated completely from the world while
you're doing this work if you're going
to go deep into the universes and very
very important to have a completely
grounded isolated protected environment
so that you know that whatever you're
confronting and I've confronted some
pretty horrendously difficult
experiences but whatever you're
confronting you know that it's not
coming from outside you it's coming from
innocence from inside you or from in
it's coming from the universe but purely
through your own consciousness so no
outside complications I did not try to
stay in contact with the outside world
at all let's hear from Kari go ahead
Kari thank you so much for all your work
I've heard you speak years ago through
PCC and CIS and I've enjoyed your
writings and and many bits but I love
this presentation that you did today so
coherent and walking through each of the
stages and sessions and the way you
organized the arc of the journey is
really
impressive and super-rich so thank you
so much for that thank you three
questions you can pick one if you want
if it seems too but the the astrological
integration I'm really curious about you
know your individual chart your transits
how the individual chart kind of
functioned as a lens for you to entering
these you know either subconscious parts
of yourself to be able to see them or
the you know the collective unconscious
as well all of the parts mmm there and
and you know how much of the of the
chart do you think remained as you
entered these less individuated states
yeah one the individual part two the
transits any you know just any little
head bits that stick out I guess and
then the third one I'm really curious
particularly it came up for me when you
were talking about being in the ocean of
suffering and the the healing that can
come about from processing that
internally and individually and I'm
curious if you if those effects you felt
them in your I'm just gonna call it your
waking life your your normal states of
consciousness in if it kind of came back
from people around you or in world
events or you know any potent moments
where that where that you really felt
that reflection of your internal
experience from the external world yeah
let's start on your last question and
then work forward into the earlier ones
yeah it did manifest there were
manifestations that emerged in the outer
world and so let me mention my book the
living classroom and there's a chapter
on teaching and dark matter lead on what
my I never talked to my students about
my work right I just made a firewall
between my professional life and my
inner harmonic work and yet I found over
time that various students were being
activated by my inner work though that
the deeper I went the more powerful the
activation became
and it became such a prominent part of
my teaching that I found that I had to I
had to understand what was going on I
had to learn how to work with these
forces so for me
integration doesn't mean simply personal
integration into my personal life but it
also means helping take care of all the
derivative social fallout of one's own
experiences I found for example that
while I was teaching and I would just be
reaching to give examples of something I
was trying to explain that the examples
that I would reach for would without my
even being aware of it students were
coming up after class and they say you
know that's interesting that you use
that example because that's exactly what
happened to me this week and this
happened over and over again that there
was some kind of boundary which had come
down between my mind and my students
mind it was and not only not only were
these things kind of like triggering
sort of an aha moment from my students
isn't that curious you know but the
deeper I went the more these
synchronistic touches began to trigger
very very deep healing experiences in
the students It was as if their souls
were in communication with my soul and
they were giving me bits and pieces of
insights into where they were what they
needed where they were suffering where
they were hurting and this was happening
without me being consciously aware of
the process at all and so I really had
to study this I really had to understand
what was what was driving these
processes and eventually I wrote after
dark night early dawn I wrote an entire
book on the living classroom on the
collective dynamics in the classroom and
I don't mention psychedelics there
because this is not a psychedelic
phenomena this is simply about the
nature of consciousness at one level we
have private mind but just beneath our
private mind mine does not have privacy
there are collective dimensions of mind
it's like throwing a rock into a lake
the ripples spread out when you do deep
deep work the ripples of that work
spread out and touch the lives of people
around you
the place where I experienced this most
profoundly was in my classroom because I
was working in a collective context I
could see these ripples coming back at
me all the time the first the issue of
astrology and individual and global
transits this is a complicated question
and I'm not an astrologer so I want to
be very careful about this I tracked my
sessions I used astrology to plan my
sessions after I learned from Rick
tarnis about the correlations between
outer planets and inner experience in
psychedelic days so I I plant my
sessions by transits and I also tracked
the patterns of my breakthroughs
projected against the pattern of the
planets and I found it to be a very
complicated correlation
while there were correlations between my
individual transits and global transits
with the unfolding of my psychedelic
experience there were also differences
that I wasn't expecting there was a kind
of a failure to find correspondence for
example my breakthroughs were not always
paired with with Uranus all right my my
really really intense up against the
wall
death in your face experiences were not
a confident we're not marked by Saturn
transits or Saturn global transits or
even Pluto transits and so it was a
complicated process when when my work
began to go off the edge of time and
space when I began to enter deeper and
deeper into archetypal reality and then
beyond archetype of reality into
dharmakaya or the diamond luminosity I
found what I felt was a kind of a
roll-off of astrological variables that
the astrology did not seem my my
psychedelic dance did not seem to map
very easily into the astrological dance
and I began to think that there actually
might be a roll off effect of one's
solar dance and one's session
experiences and this continues to be an
area of active dialogue for me it's an
active consideration there is an
appendix in the book the last appendix
is called
pushing the limits of astrological
correspondence and in that chapter in
that appendix I give the dates of all of
my sessions so if one wanted to one can
look at my natal chart one could look at
the sessions when you look at the
correlations or lack of correlations and
so forth now I know that that's not a
this not enough sessions given in the
book to really get a definitive answer
but I wanted to support the discussion
of the relationship between astrology
astrological transits and global
transits and one's own psychedelic work
to me that's an open question at this
point I know that there are correlations
particularly in the early stages of one
works whether those correlations
continue to be as strong in the late
stages of one's work I'm not as
convinced I'm okay in terms of my own
chart that gets too complicated you know
I have a lot of Neptune in my chart I
have a lot of water in my chart I have a
Sun square Neptune with Neptune in the
first house so there are a lot of them I
have some other dynamics that I was
destined to do this type of work you
know and I want to mention the ocean of
suffering this was not something that
was forced on me I didn't understand at
the time but this and I don't think the
universe forces any of us into this type
of work this was too too hard too
demanding too difficult for it to have
it before so I mean what I learned over
time again is it this is something that
I voluntarily took on in this
incarnation it was part of the plan of
my incarnation
to do this work and to do the ocean of
suffering work in particular so I'm the
volunteer and I think we're all when we
get into this deep deep muck that we get
into we're volunteers for this work
awesome thank you so much Pauline amber
in Poland and we are so happy to finally
see you live and thank you wanted to say
how much we appreciated your call I have
a few questions but let's start and
let's continue the theme of the ocean of
suffering and where we live in Poland of
course was the site of one of the most
horrific events that happened I would
say for centuries which by which I mean
of course the Holocaust yeah when you
had your experience of the ocean of
suffering did you experience anything
specific or was the specific information
or visions that you had that might have
related to something like this the
reason I'm asking this question is
because the event which happened 80
years ago is so palpable that it's still
in the atmosphere it's still in the
collective you can feel it here in the
land and you know it's it's there in the
collective for him whether we like it or
not and I was just interested in whether
in any admissions you actually had a
sense of what happens then yeah I did
not go into specifically identifiable
historical traumas like the Holocaust
what happened was I basically was taken
into deeper and deeper and deeper into
pain and fury and
chaos and extraordinary suffering that
kept getting larger and larger
it wasn't narrowly focused in any
century or any country or any place it
expanded to include hundreds of
thousands millions of people and it
expanded to include hundreds of years
thousands of years until eventually my
subjective experience was that it
included all the human beings and all
the conflicts that emerged in the
history of humanity I mean something of
that scope so I have no doubt that
trauma like the Holocaust or trauma like
the extinction of Native Americans and
other tribal conflicts and so on I have
no doubt that those were implicitly
present in what I was working with but
it it wasn't explicitly present it was
like to me you know stan has this
concept of a coexistence system of
condensed experience I think the
collective psyche also has these massive
aggregate these balls of collective
experience I call them the the meta
matrices they are they are the the meta
coexistence the correct systems of the
collective psyche that fuse multiple
historical periods and multiple cultures
and multiple people's experience late in
this whole series it became very clear
to me was that what I was engaging was
memory a living memory of trauma that
was embedded in the collective psyche I
should mention that where I live in
Youngstown Youngstown Ohio we haven't
had a Holocaust here but we have a long
history of violence it goes back to the
Native Americans and there were some
massacres that took place here there is
a tremendous influx of Eastern European
this is a town that made steel there's
there's a lot of old-world patriarchy a
lot of violence against women a lot of
old institutional violence and the Mafia
took over our town for decades they were
gangland shootings
in neighborhood parking lots my sense is
that because the ocean of suffering was
on the agenda in my work that I was
actually brought to a place where these
poisons run close to the surface in the
collective psyche and I'm sure that if I
were working in Poland or in a place
that it would have been more explicit
the historical trauma that you're
referring to thank you thank you first
of all Chris thanks so much for all your
work over the the decades been a huge
fan forever and ever and ever and I'm
just so wonderful and on this ocean of
suffering issue that's been brought up
and touched on because that's kind of
like the next stop on the journey for a
lot of the people out there working your
book dark night early dawn was extremely
helpful to patron i we we don't work
with LSD we work with holotropic
breathwork which is just another
technique in order to connect with these
things and what we had noticed over the
years was that there were individuals
who under not predictable circumstances
began to contact what seemed to be this
ocean of suffering it wasn't a past life
which happens often enough but there was
thinking about it and then we realized
my goodness people need some clarity
that this is not just a personal stuff
that they're saddled with and have to
carry around forever they are in a sense
volunteers
yes and so this was extremely useful and
some people in spiritual emergency that
come to us begins realized oh so I was
trying to solve the basic problem
between men and women for the last five
thousand years okay well you know I've
got other things I've got to do today
and so that I want to thank you very
much for that and it's clear now how
this network will make more available to
many more people whatever techniques to
work at even with spontaneous
experiences
and what we developed was using systemic
constellation work then to do a
constellation for the individual that is
caught in this that would say okay
here's the representative for the part
of the man woman's story that's mine and
here's a representative for the part of
the man woman's story that hmm you know
that's a great big thing and then to let
this this clarity
Wow I do have work to do we all have
work to do and there's something else
going on yeah and and so I just want to
thank you for the earlier work I'm so
glad to see this thank all the powers
that living breathing so I'm looking
forward to the stage and our workshops
in which the the comments about the
other other stages of the past becomes
thank you I
I completely agree and I think as we go
deeper into this historical crisis that
we've entered I think we're entering
into a collective dark night of the soul
it seems like there's a profound
detoxification taking place that the
poisons of history are coming out of our
collective pores maybe we see it if we
look around us in body politic but it's
coming out of our pores and it's coming
up underneath us and flooding so that if
we're interested in doing purifying work
if we're interested in doing
transformational work when we open we
open it if we have a technique that's
powerful enough like holotropic
breathwork we open at an individual
level and then we open at these deeper
levels now I'm not a therapist
but if I were a therapist and if I were
working with people entering these
states I think just what you're
describing differentiating different
levels of the work that emerges
recognizing kind of what is mine
personally and what is not mine
personally but mine
collectively it's important to have
closure and to be able to close these
collective levels and there would be I
would think an importance of kind of
widening those sessions down and kind of
concretizing the collective work in
contrast and separate from one's
individual work now I will say that I
went into this work voluntarily
I stayed into it voluntarily and I am
infinitely glad for just personal
reasons let alone the collective reasons
I am personally very glad to have done
this work because the rewards that came
were not simply a karmic paying back but
when one opens and embraces one's life
as a member of the species when one's
open to the species and takes
responsibility for the pain and
suffering of the species it sets in
motion not only a healing of that
species but there is a tremendous
infusion of light that enters into the
collective psyche and into your psyche
as it enters into the collective psyche
and so I have been so deeply rewarded
more than amply compensated for the work
that I did in the ocean of suffering and
other levels and I think that this is
true for other people too that when we
give deeply and generously to those
around us sooner or later we don't know
when how or where but sooner or later
there is a deep fruition that comes up
underneath us that carries us
individually where the universe is
intent on carrying the human species as
a collective and that is into this birth
of this profoundly new quality of
consciousness that I'm calling the
diamond soul or the future human thank
you so much Chris as Kerry said that was
such a beautifully laid out coherent arc
and I'm so
April for the time that you have spent
with us today and for all of you here
connecting from all around the world
thank you so much for uniting today in
both our hearts and our minds and we
send each of you so much love and
infinite blessings on your journey
as you deepen into your own explorations
and the healings that we're all here
doing right now today in this world
thank you so much be well and we will
see you next time
you